"  So you remember my story about leaving my
marriage at the same time that I moved out
of the house i'd shared with my partner
of 11 years, I was also reading the
book Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown.
That book was profoundly
influential during this early
phase of my transformation.
In the book, she talks about true
belonging and what it really means.
She says, " belonging is
being accepted for you.
Fitting in is about being accepted
for being like everyone else.
If I get to be like me, I belong.
If I have to be like you, I fit in right.
Fitting in is all about assessing
a situation and becoming who
you need to be to be accepted.
Belonging, on the other hand, doesn't
require us to change who we are.
It requires us to be who we are."
Does that remind you of anything?
See, we know from our work with the
persona system that we're very good
at becoming who we need to be to fit
in, and that has some consequences.
For instance, if I said to you, you
don't have to become someone else to be
loved, you are worthy of love on your
best days and on your worst days, you
are enough, even when you're failing.
You are perfect.
Even when you're an inconvenience.
Even when you ugly cry, even when
you're needy, even when you insert your
favorite way to shame yourself here.
Would you believe me or would
you, some part of you resist it?
Well, sure I'm lovable, but right.
So many people tell me that they
can love others unconditionally,
but they have no idea how to extend
that same compassion to themselves.
Why is that?
Why is it okay for others to
be imperfect but not for you?
The answer is simple,
but it's kinda shocking.
See, for most of your life, you've only
been loved when you were pretending.
Our subconscious is like
this little scientist.
I imagine this little like Einstein
haired dude with big glasses, and
he's pouring these bright colored
liquids from, uh, like crazy beakers.
He's behind my eyes, like
an Inside Out, right?
And when I act in the world,
he's observing and he's
jotting down his findings.
This gets praise, this gets punished,
this gets attention that gets ignored.
This is safe.
That's not.
So, we shape ourselves,
we adapt, we perform.
We've been through this, right?
The point is we become so good at getting
validation for who we pretend to be,
that we teach ourselves that we must
perform in order to be worthy of love.
Oof.
And here's what's worse.
There's a corollary to this.
Every time we perform for acceptance,
we send a message to ourselves,
who I actually am is unacceptable
and unlovable, that if anyone
really saw us, they'd walk away.
That the best we can hope for is cheap
validation for a role that we're playing.
Right?
And we're addicted to these quick hits of
acceptance, but we're robbing ourselves of
what we really want belonging, remember?
Joe Hudson says, you can't connect
with people if you're constantly
managing their perception of you.
He's saying something hard but necessary.
When you live behind a mask,
no one can truly love you.
They can love the mask.
Sure, they can approve of the image.
But you?
Your essence?
Your depth?
Your heart?
Not that.
You never gave them a chance, and that
brings us to a very personal truth.
I wanna share with you next.